# Classfication Machine Learning Models Optimized by GridSearch: on Fatality Predictions in Utah Avalanches

**Project description** 

An avalanche is a mix of ice and rock debris with a mass of snow, traveling down to destroy everything on its path. 
Average, in the U.S., avalanches kill marked 25 to 30 people each winter season, while even more injure are unmarked in the unpatrolled areas. 
The avalanche is also a common cause of fatalities in mountainous winter climates in Utah. Due to local folks' preferences on skiing or other outdoor snow sports, Avalanches have become a severe threat to human life. 
Therefore, it is vital to predicting possible fatalities based on the observed avalanche information. The larger scale that occurs in steep areas may cause higher possibilities of death, which indicates that the government should assign more human resources and resources to search and rescue the potential injuries. At the same time, the small-scaled avalanche that happens in the relatively flat area should be carefully supervised. By classification analysis on the recorded information, our research will assist the government in forecasting the possible death in observed avalanches and making a quick decision on the optimal amount of resources and human resources put in the rescue activities. In this project, we will construct predictive models of decision tree and support vector machine for forecasting the occurances of avalanche fatality. Also, we plan to find the optimal ratio of training versus test dataset for model construction and predictive accuracy by comparing algorithms performances. For both models, choosing the best parameters using cross-validation is also one of project objectives. Ultimately, we will achieve finding the best model with optimal parameters to predict the occurance of fatality in given avalanche. 

